Our-Members:
Walter Boley, Developer and Scrum Master.
I am a transfer student from Calhoun Community College in Huntsville. I have experience in programming 
through excess programming classes that were not able to transfer. I work diligently to complete tasks 
and enjoy programming because each program feels like a different puzzle I can solve. 

Hayden Roy, Developer and Product Owner.
I am a first-year freshman at Auburn. I have taken a few courses on programming in my free time but 
this is my first official class. I enjoy programming because it challenges me and this class has been a
good opportunity for me to learn. I enjoy working in teams for projects and this class has given me a 
good opportunity to do so.

Katelyn Havnaer, Developer.
I am a first-year freshman at Auburn University. This is the first programming class I have taken, but 
I have been interested in learning it for several years. I enjoy the problem solving aspect of coding 
and working in teams.

Chase Carithers, Developer.
I am a first-year freshman here at Auburn. This class is my first experience with anything coding 
related, and it has really felt like it suits me well. I also enjoy working in teams, which I’m very 
glad that I’m getting to experience in this class. 

Cal Cunnion, Developer.
I am a first-year Freshman at Auburn. I’ve had a few years experience coding in highschool which 
motivated me to pursue studying computer science here at Auburn. I enjoy the challenge of coding and 
the idea of working in a team-oriented space.
~ ~

Our-Vision: 
Create a program that presents statistics about access to healthcare around the world, and raise 
awareness for the countries that are struggling the most with their healthcare system.

Our Goals:
Goal 1:
Thoroughly research the topic at hand to find measurable data that can be displayed graphically and 
that we can use in our narrative.

Goal 2:
Create a basic program that can display the information that we acquired, and that can output our 
narrative.

Goal 3:
Fully flesh out the program so that it is easy to navigate and is visually appealing.

Goal 4:
Articulate our vision by presenting our Program.
~ ~

1-1. This source supports our narrative by upholding the fact that impoverished countries truly are stuck in a detrimental loop. Without the means to improve access to healthcare, citizens are unable to stay consistently fit to work towards a common goal of progress.
2-1. This article finds a correlation between GDP and infant mortality rates.

Round-# 1 Research Results:
The World Factbook was by far the most helpful source. Under each country I was able to find numbers 
listed under almost every category you can think of. Through this site, I was able to track down points
that I found to be most relevant to our cause. What I discovered was an apparent correlation between 
childcare effectiveness, GDP, and access to healthcare (which I quantified through physicians and 
hospital beds per 1,000 people). These countries that rank lowest in access to healthcare are stuck in 
a sort of vicious cycle. Both their high infant mortality rate which limits their future generations 
and greatly lowers morale within the struggling populace, and their almost complete lack of funding for
any sort of medical infrastructure keep them tied down.

Round-# 2 Research Results:
So far, I was able to find two articles from credible sources that support our cause. I was able to 
locate and cite these articles accurately through the use of Google Scholar. The first touches on the 
fact that countries with low GDPs continue to stay in unfortunate situations through their inability to
construct sufficient medical infrastructure. The second almost directly supports our topic by bringing 
up the relationship between GDP and infant mortality.

Citations:
1. Raghupathi, Viju, and Wullianallur Raghupathi. "Healthcare expenditure and economic performance: 
insights from the United States data." Frontiers in public health 8 (2020): 156. 
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpubh.2020.00156/full 

2. Abuqamar, Mazen, Danny Coomans, and Fred Louckx. "Correlation between socioeconomic differences and 
infant mortality in the Arab World (1990-2009)." International Journal of Sociology and Anthropology 
3.1 (2011): 15. 
https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=4ab337dc70858c7671e1c1952ac438f6d5dd36db

https://data.worldbank.org/ 
https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook 
~ ~






Narrative:
During our time spent on this project, we have been able to make many significant findings concerning 
more disadvantaged areas in the world. We have researched extensively in order to procure the necessary
information to support our point. Through our research, we were able to glean an abundance of knowledge
on the top 12 countries with the lowest access to healthcare. With this, we managed to create 
visualizations by employing MatLab, Numpy, and Python.
Our project’s main aim is to quantify and visualize healthcare information so that we can raise 
awareness for disadvantaged countries. The first graph that we made illustrates the infant mortality 
rate of each of the countries. This metric is a good indicator of a place’s accessibility to 
healthcare, and demonstrates how insufficient medical infrastructure not only affects the adult 
population, but the infant population as well. Mazen Abuqamar, Danny Coomans, and Fred Louckx in their 
research paper for Vrije Universiteit Brussel found that “...infant mortality rate (IMR) is one of the 
most important indicators of the socioeconomic and of the health status of a community….” Infant 
mortality in each of these places, especially in the top 5, is excessively high compared to the rest of
the world. Because IMR is the best standard to measure by, we based the rest of the graphs off of the 
rankings from this one.

The second graph presents our studied countries’ respective GDPs. A sub-goal of the project was to find
a relationship between the countries’ access to healthcare and their GDP. While there was not a direct 
correlation between the two, all of the countries that we researched had generally low GDPs, ranking 
among the lowest in the world. As suggested by studies from the Bureaus of Economic Analysis and Labor 
Statistics collected by Viju and Wullianallur Raghupathi, there are “results [that] strongly suggest a 
positive correlation between healthcare expenditure and…GDP….”This illustrates an issue that is 
prevalent in these regions, which is that they do not have the means to improve themselves. With a poor
economy, funds are stretched thin across the country’s many different needs.

The third and final graph we created consisted of the physician and hospital bed density per 1,000 
people. This was the second best quantifier of healthcare that we could find for our purposes. There is
an evident relationship between the three different measurements that we have graphed. The incredibly 
high infant mortality rate is in part caused by the exceedingly insufficient number of physicians in 
the country. Those two are both tied in by the GDPs of the respective places.

Through this project, we intended to bring attention to parts of the world that seem to be struggling 
in terms of healthcare. We also presented the relationship between healthcare and a low GDP, which are 
two problems that need to be tackled simultaneously. None of these people deserve to live in the manner
that they are forced to, and it is important to be aware of the fact that this occurs. The more people 
that are knowledgeable on this topic makes it all the more likely that these issues will be solved for 
future generations.
~ ~